i own and manage the land. at least an acre or 2, vast space for houses, greenhouses, chicken coops, orchards and the like that we setup in nature, as part of nature. 
I own & manage the land as opposed to donating it to a non-profit body, because a.) that's the way I want to, b.) faster, practical, a lot more productive and a lot quicker results managed by a single body that has the full say than a committee etc. 

residents each have their own private exclusive forever homes each. The houses are mobile (owners can remove them when/if they wish from the time they also formally own them-- see below) , and the zoning on land is trailer park + agricultural (and whatever else necessary) in a Native-friendly municipality. 
Once a resident is in there, s/he is in there. S/he's never going back to streets. If s/he slips back (addiction lapses, breaking the law and the like) s/he gets into the mid-way house till s/he heals back/recovers. But her tiny home is waiting there for her-- there's no way it's taken from her (single gender "she/her" from here on for ease of writing).  

The residents gradually own their tiny homes in the formal manner as well, as they reside in Native Town. They gain this formal ownership of their mobile, tiny home as they stay there, over time. Not by paying for it. They don't gain formal ownership right from the beginning-- i don't see that in the picture (not now/yet anyways.) Native Town land management (me) or some other individual body doesn't own it, either. /* this part to be further shaped */
But, regardless, even though they don't formally own their house from the beginning, they *do* own it-- they have that exclusive right&access to theyir home and forever (never lost), as said in the above paragraph. 

The land management and the tiny houses on it have to be arranged-- Native Town should be able to accept donations as a non-profit (?) and those donations should go into building of the tiny houses only /* and some other community expenses like building the greenhouses, sewage systems, .. ? */ without ANY being owned/mixing with the land management. Land mngt belongs to me-- an individual. The community on it is on this land sitting for free (no rent or anything like that). /** This must be worked out-- not sure/yet how it can be regulated-- this non-profit status that can accept donations and the private/individual land mngt. */

"Under no circumstances the residents pay anything to the land management". The only thing that's stopping me from saying this is the gray areas in managing the common spaces-- the sewage/water/wifi/internet etc common facilities may have to be signed by/in-relation with the land management.  But, no 2-ways abt the following re.the following under any circumstances: 

The residents never pay rent or basic utilities in order to reside in their tiny homes.  

Residents "pay dues" to the community (and noone else) and on environmental/nature chores. This is what they do in return for residing in Native Town. There is a list of chores-- look after "this" chicken coop daily, "this-specific" greenhouse chore 2hrs/day, feed the cats, .. . This is their contribution to the community-- not "payments"-- and their contribution the way they choose. They have to thou-- once they commit on a task, they'll have taken the responsibility and are to fulfill. It's their thing. Everyone breating in Native Town contributes to the environment in her own way. Can't think of anyone who wouldn't. But, just to have laid it all out, those characteristically refusing to contribute in their chosen way can & should be moved to the mid-way house until they choose to com back. This (moving a resident to the mid-way house for such reason) is way after the community worked in its own dynamics to resolve it with that resident. 

